# visual-collection-montse
“Montse's Memory Games: A Collection of Pre-teen Projects”
 
This visual collection project titled “Montse's Memory Games: A Collection of Pre-teen Projects” was inspired by my interest in creative storytelling throughout my childhood. In my last web development project, I created a digital translation of a short story that I wrote when I was 17 years old. In following along with this trend of showcasing and re-imagining my older work, I chose to focus this collection on my pre-teen projects. Many of the objects are homemade videos filmed on a computer and edited with the free Windows Movie Maker software (no longer available). Some of the objects also include grainy photos and screenshots where an act of “play” takes place. The items chosen have a personal significance to me because they were produced to entertain myself, family, and friends. This project allows for strangers to get a glimpse into my personal adolescent experience. At the same time, I hope that people can relate their own childhood memories of “play” with the collection.
Each object element or memory could be associated with another because of the collection’s display as a concentration or memory card game. By searching through objects to find matching pairs, users relate two individual objects at a time. Once a matching pair is found, these duplicates can signify a clone or reflection of the audience’s childhood. This type of concentration game is commonly played at a young age, thus calling to the user’s own childhood. The order of each card is shuffled when the website is reloaded, meaning that a user can try to search for matching pairs and encounter them in different locations on the page. I liked the idea of having the objects hidden at first glance and getting to reveal or learn what makes up the collection as you play.
Developing this project allowed me to reflect on how digital collections shape meaning because curation makes the user experience change. This website builds on a “games” theme beyond just the literal memory card game. Once a matching pair is found, a popup with information on the hidden object (i.e. title, people involved, video, etc.) is revealed in front of a random colored background. This color change also allows for one user to experience the website differently from another user. The metadata that I chose to display stays the same for each set of matching pairs. The metadata itself was difficult to collect at times because, for example, I was unable to get the exact dates for when each photo in the short films was taken or when I started and ended editing. Much of the content was backed up on the same day and is missing the date of completion. This fact in itself reveals something about my knowledge of trying to preserve memories of childhood, but also hide specific details of the memories themselves.
In my design decisions, I tried to imitate what a website might have looked like if I had thought it up as a pre-teen. Many of the short-films are edited in a font similar to arial and had thick colored outlines, which I reflected in the display of the website. I also incorporated drawings that represent the titles of each video to have a visual icon when playing the card game. This allowed for more visual cohesion throughout. In my project, I made a dropdown bar so that the cards would be organized by “themes” that I set myself. The dropdown content contains thought out categories that link to specific cards, though the categories may not make sense to the reader until after all the cards in the category are flipped and pairs are found.
The drop down table renders a new set of cards (taking away or adding certain objects), but it is important to note that it would not make sense to order the cards by specific filters such as alphabetical order or date created. Filters to affect the order of the cards would mess up the concept of the memory game. For me, the most challenging part of the project was in connecting my JavaScript code of the dropdown table with that of the cards. I had high ambitions for what I wanted to create, but I had a challenging time keeping all of my code organized as I added more complexities. I took a lot of coding inspiration and conducted troubleshooting by using Youtube videos, CodePen examples, StackOverflow, and ChatGPT. All if not most references can be accessed through my Github code. JavaScript allowed me to elevate the experience of my dropdown bar and popups. I also got to work with conditional statements for the dropdown, popup, and memory game. This all together would not have been possible to combine together to achieve the current product.
